# Tech Proposal Template



This template is for Haskell Foundation technical agenda proposals. You may find existing proposals and more examples at the [tech-proposals](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals) repository. 



## Introduction

This section should detail the following: A summary of the proposal’s
motivation, implementation, risks, timeline, and goals. It should aim to
be an abstract for the proposals.

## Background

This section should explain any background (targeting a casual audience)
needed to understand the proposal’s motivation (e.g. a high level
overview of the technical details and some history).



## Motivation

This section should explain the motivation in terms of why Haskell
Foundation should take on this project, and why it is important for the
Haskell ecosystem. What impact will it have? Why should people care?

## Goals

This section should detail the high-level goals of the project, as well
as the criteria for what constitutes a finished project. Deliverables
should support these goals, and the goals should support the motivation
for undertaking the project.

## People

This section should detail the following people:

-   **Performers:** the project leads and main developers/resources who will be directly involved in the day to day work.
    
-   **Reviewers:** people who will be signing off on work done for the proposal at different stages.
    
-   **Stakeholders:** A sample of people who will be directly affected by the project, who can serve as coordinators and advisors.

## Resources

This section should describe the estimated resource cost of the project
as it pertains to the Haskell Foundation. Does the project need funding?
Is there a human cost in terms of hours and effort? We need to know!

## Timeline

This section should detail the high-level time estimate of such a
project, and serve as an educated guess. We acknowledge that no estimate
is accurate, but we should be able to give coarse estimates in terms of
months and years.

## Lifecycle:

This section should detail the SDLC of the project, including a
high-level description of the following criteria:

-   **Implementation:** A high-level overview of the implementation details of the project, including how the leaders expect to make progress on individual goals and key progress indicators. This
    section should not be as granular as individual merge requests that will be made, but that would be a bonus!
    
-   **Compatibility issues:** highlight any potential compatibility issues that may arise from the changes brought by this project, including any work that needs to be done on the part of
    stakeholders or performers.
    
-   **Performance impact:** An overview of the potential performance impact of this project on the ecosystem, if applicable.

## Deliverables

This section should describe the individual deliverables this project
will bring as a result of the changes described above. These
deliverables should support the end goals of the project and define what
HF is actually delivering to the community.

## Outcomes

This section should describe the expected outcomes of the project, both
positive and negative.

## Risks

This section should detail any potential risks, blockers, or hurdles the
leads expect to encounter throughout the project’s lifecycle.
